(Transcrito por TurboScribe.ai. Actualizar a Ilimitado para eliminar este mensaje.) This podcast is supported by the Icahn School
of Medicine at Mount Sinai, one of America's
leading research medical schools.
Icahn Mount Sinai is the academic arm of
the eight-hospital Mount Sinai Health System in
New York City.
It's consistently among the top recipients of NIH
funding.
Researchers at Icahn Mount Sinai have made breakthrough
discoveries in many fields vital to advancing the
health of patients, including cancer, COVID and long
COVID, cardiology, neuroscience, and artificial intelligence.
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
We find a way.
This is the Science Podcast for May 22nd,
2024.
I'm Sarah Crespi.
First up, hope in the field of deadly
prion diseases.
Prions are these misfolded proteins that clump together
and chew holes in the brain.
The misfolding of these normal proteins can be
in a number of ways.
Genetics, spontaneous folding, and infection with a misfolded
prion from another animal or person.
Staff writer Meredith Wadman walks me through new
potential treatments for these always fatal neurodegenerative diseases.
Next up on the show, producer Katherine Irving
talks with researcher Ashley Larson about the effects
of organic farms on their neighbors.
If there are very few organic farms, conventional
farms actually tend to increase their pesticide use.
But if organic farms are clustered together, the
pesticide use goes down for everyone.
Prion diseases have a very strange mechanism.
Prions start as a normal protein with a
normal function in the brain.
These prions can misfold or adopt another shape
and then cause other prion proteins to also
misfold.
These misfolded proteins accumulate and slowly, surely destroy
the brain.
Neurodegenerative prion diseases like Creutzfeldt-Jakob in humans
and bovine spongiform encephalitis in cows can actually
infect others in certain circumstances.
Like you might have to eat part of
the cow and there are also certain ways
for humans to pass this to another.
No matter which way you get it, there's
also genetic versions, it's 100% fatal.
Attempts to find treatments for prion diseases have
really been stymied since the discovery of these
mechanisms in the 1980s.
But this week in science, staff writer Meredith
Wadman wrote about new tactics to take on
prion diseases that are giving hope to researchers
and patients.
Hi Meredith, welcome back to the podcast.
Hi Sarah, I'm glad to be here.
Yeah, I'm happy to have you, although this
is a pretty intense story.
You have a lot of people that you
talk to that are either had this disease
or studying this disease because they have family
or enrolled in the trials.
It's an impactful piece for sure.
In fact, I first heard of this story
on the Science Slack channel four months ago.
You wrote on there, my friend is having
these really weird symptoms.
He's in the hospital.
Do you want me to read your Slack
message?
Would that be weird?
Sure, yeah, no.
Okay, do you want to read it or
you Okay, so I see the Slack message
from you on one of the new Slack
channels.
For any of you disease sleuths out there,
a personal question.
We have a good friend, 67 years old
in Arlington Hospital since Sunday, with progressively worsening
confusion, now hallucinating.
He has left-sided weakness.
His MRI shows something going on in the
right temporal lobe, no recent travel.
His last travel was to England in March.
In a stretch, the stump doctors are testing
for CJD.
They have also just requested a neuro consult
from the Mayo Clinic.
I asked if they have tested him for
eastern equine encephalitis, WNV, rocky mountain spotted fever,
herpes simplex, cryptococcus.
Is there anything I'm missing?
I didn't ask about malaria.
There was recently a case in Maryland.
So this is you reaching out to our
science news staffers who have explored all aspects
of disease and biology and saying, who can
help me figure out what's going on with
my friend?
And of course, it turns out it was
the super unlikely CJD, which is a prion
disease.
It was, and I got to correct myself,
my Slack message in two elements.
Number one, Charlie was 70, not 67.
Yeah.
And number two, my sort of know-it
-all-ish saying, in a stretch, they're thinking
about CJD.
And of course, you think about what you
know.
And even as a medical student years ago,
CJD was so rare.
Like it is rare as a physician that
you will see a case in your life.
Yeah.
So I was kind of like, what?
It's not easy to diagnose, right?
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, what we're talking about.
It's a prion disease.
It's one of the human forms.
It's not easy to diagnose.
It's very rare.
Like people are not coming down with this.
And the only way to tell often is
in aftermath, right?
Oh, the only definitive diagnosis is from a
pathology in a brain autopsy.
So yeah, that's the for-sure method.
Although there's some very good diagnostic tools, one
in particular now that give a lot of
certainty.
But that's not going to change the course
of the disease, which in almost all cases
is very rapidly progressive.
Our friend Charlie died about five weeks after
he showed the very first symptoms.
Yeah.
Was that what made you decide to write
this story?
Certainly got it on my radar.
And then in discussing with one of our
editors, John Travis, what was going on, because
this has been a uniformly bleak field for
having treatments, there are none.
He and I kind of came across several
potential treatments that are progressing.
Yeah.
And one just happened to be launching the
first clinical trial in more than a dozen
years started in January.
So it seemed like an auspicious time to
be writing about this.
There are different sources of prion disease.
So for example, I mentioned the cow form
was transferred to people through diet in England
during this huge outbreak.
But nowadays, how are people getting prion diseases?
How can someone end up with this kind
of misfolding protein accumulating in their brain?
Right.
So if you think about all prion disease
as pie, there's a tiny sliver, less than
1% that is acquired by eating contaminated
meat or by having a surgery, a neurosurgery
in which a contaminated instrument was used.
Something external to your body comes into it.
The case we heard about a researcher in
France in the last couple of years who
had a needle stick from working with prion
proteins.
Right.
Exactly.
Super rare.
The whole pie is ultra rare.
It's a bunch of ultra rare diseases or
super rare.
Yeah.
And the acquired kind is like less than
1%.
So and just to put it in context,
in the U.S. there have been four
cases of acquired from infected cattle disease ever
since the British outbreak.
And three of those had traveled abroad.
Yeah.
And one of them possibly had traveled, they
had picked it up traveling.
So this is not something homegrown where you
got to look at U.S. cattle say
and say, ooh, I better not.
Right.
So what do we have left in this
pie?
So 10 to 15% of the pie
is genetically acquired prion disease.
That's where you inherit a mutation.
And these are dominant mutations, which means that
if your parent is carrying the mutation, you
have a 50% chance of getting it
from them.
And then if you do inherit it, you
have a 100% chance of developing the
disease.
It's not a matter of if, but when.
Then finally, you have these 85% or
90% of people who just develop it.
They call it sporadically.
Consider it spontaneously.
This protein goes rogue.
That's much more likely to be in people
over 60.
So related with aging, perhaps it's not well
understood why these proteins, regular normal prion proteins,
which inhabit all of our brains, suddenly just
misfold and go berserk and basically chew holes
in the brain.
How easy is it to study interventions in
this population?
You know, you have your people who have
the spontaneous form.
You have your very small slice of genetically
predisposed.
How do you enroll people in a clinical
trial if they're already kind of on their
way in a short, short-term disease to
death?
Right.
So that is a key hurdle.
One clinical trial that just launched in January,
the first one in more than a dozen
years, that is randomly assigned, very carefully controlled,
the kind of trial that produces evidence that
FDA would look at and say, yes, we'll
prove this or not.
It's the first stage.
But the company, Ionis, that developed this drug
hopes to be able to win an FDA
approval.
But they're testing it in people with acute
disease at this time.
And so they have a small window to
find these people.
People bounce around from doctor to doctor.
No one knows what's happening.
The symptoms look odd.
Doctors haven't seen this, by and large.
And it's really tricky to diagnose.
So by the time there's a presumptive diagnosis,
there may be only weeks left for that
patient to live.
And so you've got to get them enrolled
in that trial very quickly.
The medium survival time for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease,
the most common of these prion diseases, is
four to six months.
So the clinical trial that we're talking about
here that's kicking off is using basically the
fact that this is starting as DNA, going
to mRNA, and then going to protein and
trying to interfere in that process by introducing
an antisense oligonucleotide.
So a little strip of DNA that will
go and find the RNA before it gets
turned into the protein.
That's exactly it.
Antisense oligonucleotide, ASO for short.
And how does it get into the brain?
It is injected into the spinal fluid near
the base of the spine.
And that fluid is contiguous with the brain.
It bathes it and it goes into systems
inside the brain.
And then the ASO is believed to track
along the small arteries and get into the
brain tissue.
There's a question about how deep.
And distribution is one of the challenges, actually,
with this approach.
Is it a one and done or do
you have to keep injecting people with this?
They need repeated injections at intervals of weeks.
That's what this trial is set up to
do.
This stage, which is a first in human
trial, they're testing for safety and for how
the drug is metabolized in the body to
get to appropriate dosing levels.
Are they also looking at some other endpoints?
Are they looking to see if they can
decrease disease markers or something?
There is a biomarker in the cerebrospinal fluid
that can be followed by collecting it at
regular intervals, which I believe this trial will
do.
And the biomarker is basically the normal human
prion protein, because what this ASO intends to
do is shut down production of normal protein.
Because without normal protein, then the misfolding can't
happen.
Are people OK if they don't have any
of the normal protein?
Several animal species have been engineered to completely
lack prion protein.
And even though it's abundant in the brain
and serves lots of different functions, it's thought
these animals have been fine.
There's one issue in some of the older
mice with a peripheral neuropathy that develops with
time.
But, you know, the risk benefit ratio for
humans is pretty clear.
What about in people?
Are there people who have had like none
of this?
No, but there are a few adults who
have been found who had only half the
regular allotment.
In other words, one of their genes wasn't
functional for normal prion protein.
And they were found in late middle age
or as elderly people.
And they had had kids and they didn't
seem to have any problems.
So that's one approach that's being tried and
it's moved into clinical trials.
There's also these other approaches you talk about,
like zinc fingers.
Yeah.
That's something I know interlocks with DNA, but
that's all I got.
How does that work?
Yeah.
If you picture the sort of progression of
prion disease, starting with the DNA being transcribed
to make messenger RNA.
So the DNA is the first step.
That's where zinc fingers attack.
And they are naturally occurring proteins that a
company, Sangamo, has tailored to attack specifically prion
DNA and prevent it from ever being turned
into mRNA.
So that you're way upstream of the protein
actually being produced.
Now, it needs to be said, Sangamo is
in animals still.
They're not in the clinic like Ionis is
with their ASO.
So then if you move to the right
along this timeline of protein production, you get
the mRNA.
And that's where Ionis's antisense oligonucleotide attacks.
And then if you move just a little
further along to where the polypeptide chain of
the protein is being made by a ribosome
that's glued to the endoplasmic reticulum where final
protein assembly steps happen, that's where yet another
approach works being made by GATE Bioscience, which
would be able to take to block those
final steps of production of the prion protein.
Again, all three approaches are trying to just
zero out prion protein because without it, you
cannot have misfolding.
That is a question of like when this
intervention would be ideal.
Any one of these blocking the production of
prion proteins, would you want it if someone
had genetic testing and thought that they had
a prion protein mutation that was going to
lead to misfolding?
Would you want to do it super early?
Oh, yes.
And that's something I meant to circle back
to when you asked about the very different
approaches to the clinical trials.
This is not a prevention trial that's currently
going on.
But that is the aim of Ionis is
to get to where you can identify people
carrying the genetic mutations who have a certainty
of developing prion disease and treat them years
or decades ahead of the disease developing.
And one of the biggest advocates and real
workers in the trenches to make this kind
of trial happen is Sonia Vallab at the
Broad Institute, whose mother died of a prion
disease at age 52, and who herself has
inherited the mutation that caused that disease.
And she is working feverishly with her husband,
lots of other collaborators to get to a
point where you could have a therapy that
would zero out prion protein production, given preventively
to people who are bound to develop the
disease, but do not yet have symptoms.
And just to reiterate what you said, these
people changed their careers because they realized that
she had a prion disease.
They went and got PhDs and they became
part of the research community.
And they are a big motivator behind a
lot of the work that's being done.
And driving some of the funding because this
is a super rare disease.
It's a very hard target to hit.
It's fast moving.
And yet here we're seeing, you know, a
real forward momentum in the field that you
kind of would think would be pretty abandoned
or orphaned.
Yeah.
And a lot of that is to Sonia
and Eric's credit.
And of course, to the prion research community
more broadly, who have really rallied and worked
with them and been very, I think, moved
by Sonia and Eric's motivation.
And Sonia and Eric are involved not only,
you know, they did pre-clinical work for
Ionis to get the current trial launched, but
they're also working with Sangamo to test the
zinc fingers.
And they're working with this company, Gate Bioscience,
which is developing that pill I alluded to
that would shut down the final stages of
prion protein production.
They got fingers in lots of pies and
they are just wickedly smart and so motivated.
They're really extraordinary people.
We talked about some of the hurdles, getting
patients, getting these materials into the brain is
always a challenge.
And then also zeroing out prion.
There's just a lot to overcome to make
this work.
Have we seen any success in other diseases
with some of the approaches that you're talking
about today that are being tried for prion
diseases?
Yes.
So Ionis, the company that made the ASO
that's now in a clinical trial, has had
mixed success developing ASOs for a number of
neurological diseases.
They had one for Huntington's that was a
big disappointment, but they had one that they
developed for a very small portion of ALS
patients that got approved by FDA last year.
And perhaps most noticeably, they had an ASO
approved in 2016 for spinal muscular atrophy, this
rare inherited disease that cripples kids from the
very earliest days of life.
And that is being widely used.
So there have been some successes.
That's great.
They're also a work on one for Alzheimer's.
So stay tuned.
Yeah, I was going to say that's a
really good segue.
This brings up something that I think came
up in your story, the idea that, you
know, this is a rare disease, a very
specific mechanism at the beginning.
But, you know, the formation of aggregates is
common to other neurodegenerative diseases that we know
about.
Is Alzheimer's a disease that might benefit from
our understanding of prion diseases?
Absolutely.
And also Parkinson's.
I mean, there's misfolding of proteins that then
form aggregates that then do brain damage in
both those diseases, which particularly Alzheimer's is clearly
much, much more common.
And Parkinson's is not uncommon either.
The learnings and the applications of what's learned
in this trial and in prion disease approaches,
generally, definitely could have relevance to these commoner
neurodegenerative diseases.
Okay, Meredith, before I let you go, I
just wanted to circle back to kind of
what we started talking about, which is your
friend, Charlie.
He was a journalist.
He was writing a weekly column about the
community that he lives in.
And then he's hit with this like slew
of strange symptoms.
And even to the last, you know, he
didn't, he did not survive very long past
when he was diagnosed.
He still continued to show how much he
cares and contributes to the community around him.
And this just really comes across in the
way you write about him.
Yes, Charlie, when the doctor diagnosed him, this
was like eight or 12 days before he
died, he reached out and shook his hand
and told the doctor, congratulations for solving the
mystery.
And then within a few days, he made
very clear that he wanted to donate his
brain for research.
And the one place that collects all the
brains of people who died with suspected prion
disease in the United States is the National
Prion Disease Pathology Surveillance Center at Case Western
Reserve University.
And that's where Charlie's brain is.
And in fact, that is also the first
trial site in the current trial.
So I was able to go out and
meet Brian Appleby, who directs the surveillance center
and also is the main investigator on the
clinical trial.
And it just so happened that the day
I was there, he got the results from
Charlie's brain that showed that Charlie had not
had a mutation that he might've passed to
his daughters, that it was sporadic.
Oh, wow.
And that he'd had a certain gene variation
that made it very rapidly progressive.
And it was really moving.
And Brian said to me, after talking to
Charlie's wife, Ellen, that he had learned that
Charlie was a journalist.
And wow, what a great final contribution this
was to be part of this story.
Meredith Wadman is a staff writer for Science.
You can find a link to the story
we discussed at science.org slash podcast.
Stay tuned for producer Katherine Irving and researcher
Ashley Larson.
They chat about the spillover effects of organic
agriculture.
I think most of us have heard of
organic agriculture, but what we probably don't know
is that what happens on an organic farm
doesn't necessarily stay on that organic farm.
What goes on on an organic farm could
actually affect how surrounding farms take care of
their crops.
This week in science, Ashley Larson and her
colleagues report a discovery about the spillover effect
of organic farms onto non-organic farms.
Hi, Ashley, welcome to the podcast.
Hi, thank you for having me.
So your paper, as I just mentioned, talks
kind of a lot about organic agriculture.
And I think a lot of us have
an idea of what that is, but just
in case, can you give us sort of
a quick explanation about this method and why
some might consider it better for the planet,
quote unquote?
Sure, so organic agriculture is a production system
that generally relies on more natural production methods.
So in the US, organic agriculture is governed
by the National Organic Program.
And particularly when we think about pesticides, it
often means they're relying on more natural pest
control methods.
So not necessarily no pesticides, but generally no
synthetic pesticides except those that have particular exceptions.
You talk a little bit in the paper
about your environmental footprint.
How does it kind of affect that?
A lot of people think that organic agriculture
is basically one potential solution to reduce the
environmental footprint of agriculture because of this reliance
on more natural production methods, particularly, again, related
to pests and pest control.
The big picture, and particularly when we account
for yield differences, the environmental impacts of organics
are not fully understood.
And most of that research has happened at
the field scale.
So comparing organic and conventional fields with respect
to biodiversity or soil quality or economic outcomes,
social outcomes, et cetera.
But when we think about pests in particular
and their natural enemies or predators, right, these
are mobile organisms.
And so what happens or the decision made
at the fields might have impacts for their
neighbors.
And that's really what we're trying to get
at here is we're interested in studying whether
organic cropland has these spillover impacts for nearby
growers.
So if this method is considered more environmentally
friendly or more sustainable for the land, is
there a reason why we don't see it
super often?
I think it only makes up about 2
% of global agriculture.
I think it is growing, but of course
there are different challenges.
Some of it might be economics.
Some of it might be just farmer behavior
and knowledge.
There are different structures that result in sort
of the land use trajectories we see today.
You talk a lot about spillover from these
farms in your paper, but what is it
that's spilling over?
Is it pests, pesticide usage?
So we're thinking in particular about fields.
Farmer can have multiple fields, but we're thinking
about those field interactions in space.
And so, as I mentioned before, pests and
natural enemies of pests, which are a wide
group of different organisms.
We can think of insect natural enemies like
beetles, for example, ladybird beetles.
We can also think of parasitic wasps.
We might also be thinking about spiders.
We might be thinking about birds.
We might be thinking about bats.
There's a huge variety of different organisms that
consume insect pests.
They're mobile organisms.
And we think that they respond to both
local and landscape characteristics, field size or presence
of hedgerows, or in this case, the question
was organic agriculture.
So how would you expect this spillover to
influence surrounding growers?
There's both an ecological and an economic aspect
to this.
And I'm an ecologist, so I think more
about the ecological aspect, which is exactly the
pests and predators and their movement in space
and how they're impacted by these local and
landscape characteristics.
But on the economic side, and my colleague,
Frederick Nowak, who's co-author on this paper
is an economist, but we think in economics
that farmers might also interact, right?
It could be that this change in pests
that are spilling over onto your field affect
your pesticide use decisions.
It might be that you spray more in
response to pests, but it might be that
there's just such an influx of pests that
your benefits of spraying are actually reduced because
you treat, but pests come back.
And so perhaps you actually spray less if
your neighbor sprays less.
And lastly, it could be that you just
learn.
You look over the fence and you see
that your neighbor is doing something different and
you learn from it.
And so these different fields give us these
different hypotheses about how organic agriculture and the
landscape might affect a nearby growers.
And that's basically what we're trying to get
at with these spillovers, because your decision to
produce organic affects something beyond the boundaries of
your field.
Mm-hmm.
To do this, you analyzed a lot of
data that was in Kern County, which is
in Southern California.
Was there a particular reason you chose this
area?
Yes, there are a couple reasons, right?
One is that Kern County is a really
interesting agricultural system.
It's often either the top or top couple
agricultural producing counties in terms of value.
It also grows a wide diversity of crops
like almonds, pistachios, these high value, high pesticide
use crops.
And so it's a really interesting, intensive, diverse
agricultural system.
And then on a more practical side, it's
also a very data-rich system.
And so it's a place where we have
field level pesticide use data.
We have field level crop and farmer information,
and we have information on certified organic agriculture.
So it sort of all comes together that
we have good data and we have an
interesting system.
And so it seems the appropriate place to
focus our attention.
You were assessing a couple of questions.
So you were looking at how organic farms
influence other organic farms, how they influence non
-organic farms, and then also what specific pesticides
or things they were causing to change.
So how did you go about measuring all
of these questions and these impacts?
So the first aspect was really identifying where
organic agriculture was.
And this is actually quite tricky, even with
all the data I mentioned, because we have
information on where certified organic agriculture is, but
often we don't know the exact field.
And so we need to understand, well, which
of the potential fields are organic.
And so we have to bring in some
of that pesticide use data to identify which
potential fields only use approved pesticides or no
pesticides in order to identify which ones are
actually organic.
And then once we know which fields are
organic, then we can measure how much organic
agriculture is surrounding each of the roughly 14
,000 fields that are permitted in Kern County
each year.
And that's basically how we build our data
set.
And then we rely on a series of
mostly panel data models, trying to leverage this
multi-year data set and account for things
like farmer-specific behavior, crop-specific heterogeneity and
pesticide use, year characteristics that might affect all
fields within the system, and some regional aspects
such as soil quality or something of the
sort that might also interact with both organics
and pesticide use.
And so our main results rely on these
panel data models, and then we do some
simulations based on those results.
So what, if anything, surprised you the most
about the results that you got?
It's a great question.
Beyond the street is the whole project was
pretty exciting and surprising.
We hadn't looked at the spillover effects for
organics before.
So, you know, the most exciting part was
just getting our initial results and then trying
to turn over as many different rocks, so
to speak, to see whether they were robust
as we could.
And the truth is we were, I think,
riding pretty high the whole time since it
was such a novel project for us.
Yeah, and it kind of seemed like you
got some two sort of related but different
results where organic farms together, there were decreased
insecticides when there were lots of them that
could be together, but it seemed like the
non-organic farms were increasing their pesticide use
when surrounded by organic farms, which is a
fascinating result.
It's really interesting.
As mentioned a little bit earlier, there's some
different ecological and economic underpinnings to this research.
And in the economics literature, we might actually
have anticipated that sure farmers might increase their
pesticide use in response to increasing pests, but
if there's all this spillover, they might actually
decrease it and sort of a race to
the bottom.
Or they might just look over and look
at their neighbor who's organic, using less pesticides
and try it, right?
Just learn their neighbor.
In both cases, we'd expect a decrease in
pesticide use on conventional fields.
And we actually see an increase.
We basically hypothesized that it's due to different
reliance on natural enemies or natural predators of
pests, that on organic fields, there's perhaps a
larger population of natural enemies that are available
to sort of quickly control these incoming pests,
whereas on conventional fields, that natural enemy community
is lacking.
And so if there's a spillover of both
natural enemies and pests, conventional fields perhaps either
have lower spray thresholds or receive more of
those costs they don't have the natural enemy
community.
And so how do your results connect to
that distribution of organic and non-organic farms?
Basically, our simulation suggests at low levels of
organic cropland that effect on conventional dominates.
So we actually have an increase in insecticide
use relative to if there was zero organic.
But as organic becomes more prevalent in the
landscape, we see a decrease, as you might
expect, because we start having more of those
organic on organic impacts, as well as the
direct effect organic on insecticides.
And so basically if you cluster, then you
sort of harness all the benefits of organic
on organic, and you minimize those costs of
organic on conventional.
So by spatially separating organic and conventional fields,
you basically...